data-migration: add dm error description doc (#1614)
pingcap/docs: dev/reference/tools/data-migration/error-system.md

---

> title: Data Migration Error Message Reference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Data Migration Error Message Description
```

> summary: Learn the error message reference in Data Migration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: Learn the system and description of error messages in Data Migration.
```

> summary: Learn the error message reference in Data Migration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: Learn the system and description of error messages in Data Migration.
```

category: reference
---

> # Data Migration Error Message Reference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Data Migration Error Message Description
```

> This document describes the error messages output in Data Migration (DM) and offers solutions to some common error messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document describes the error messages in Data Migration (DM) and offers solutions to some common error messages.
```

## DM error system

A new error system has been introduced in DM 1.0.0-GA, which has the following features:

+ Add the error code mechanism
+ Add the error fields such as `class`, `scope` or `level`
+ Improve the error description, error call chain information and stack trace information

For the design and implementation of this error system, refer to [Proposal: Improve Error System](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/blob/master/docs/RFCS/20190722_error_handling.md).

## Error message reference

> The following is an actual error message output in DM. Taking this message as a sample, this document explains each field of an error message in detail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is an actual error message in DM. Taking this message as a sample, this document explains each field of an error message in detail.
```

Reviewer: Please remove all `output` in this file. It's redundant.

github.com/pingcap/dm/pkg/terror.(*Error).Delegate
        /root/code/gopath/src/github.com/pingcap/dm/pkg/terror/terror.go:267
github.com/pingcap/dm/dm/master/workerrpc.callRPC
        /root/code/gopath/src/github.com/pingcap/dm/dm/master/workerrpc/rawgrpc.go:124
github.com/pingcap/dm/dm/master/workerrpc.(*GRPCClient).SendRequest
        /root/code/gopath/src/github.com/pingcap/dm/dm/master/workerrpc/rawgrpc.go:64
github.com/pingcap/dm/dm/master.(*Server).getStatusFromWorkers.func2
        /root/code/gopath/src/github.com/pingcap/dm/dm/master/server.go:1125
github.com/pingcap/dm/dm/master.(*AgentPool).Emit
        /root/code/gopath/src/github.com/pingcap/dm/dm/master/agent_pool.go:117
runtime.goexit
        /root/.gvm/gos/go1.12/src/runtime/asm_amd64.s:1337
```

All error messages in DM have the following three components:

+ [basic error information]
+ Error message description
+ Error stack information (optional)

### Basic error information

- `code`: error code, which is unique for each error type.

    DM uses the same error code for the same error type. An error code does not change as DM version changes.

>     Some errors might be removed during the DM iteration, but the error code will not be removed. DM uses a new error code instead of an existing one for a new error type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Some errors might be removed during the DM iteration, but the error code will not be removed. DM uses a new error code instead of an existing one for a new error.
```

> - `class`: error classification

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `class`: error type
```

>     It is used to mark the belonging component where an error occurs (error source).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    It is used to mark the component where an error occurs (error source).
```

    | `dm-master`      |   An error occurs in the DM-master service. | `[code=38008:class=dm-master:scope=internal:level=high] grpc request error: rpc error: code = Unavailable desc = all SubConns are in TransientFailure, latest connection error: connection error: desc = "transport: Error while dialing dial tcp 172.17.0.2:8262: connect: connection refused"` |
    | `dm-worker`      |  An error occurs in the DM-worker service.  | `[code=40066:class=dm-worker:scope=internal:level=high] ExecuteDDL timeout, try use query-status to query whether the DDL is still blocking` |
    | `dm-tracer`      |  An error occurs in the DM-tracer service.  | `[code=42004:class=dm-tracer:scope=internal:level=medium] trace event test.1 not found` |

- `scope`: Error scope

    It is used to identify the scope and source of DM objects when an error occurs, including these four types: `not-set`, `upstream`, `downstream`, and `internal`.

    If the logic of the error directly involves requests between upstream and downstream databases, the scope is set to `upstream` or `downstream`. Other error scenarios are currently set to `internal`.

- `level`: Error level

>     The severity level of the error, which includes low, medium, and high.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The severity level of the error, which includes `low`, `medium`, and `high`.
```

Taking the [above error message](#error-message-reference) as an example:

- The error message description of the outermost layer is `grpc request error`, which describes the error in DM.
- The error message description of the innermost layer is `connection error: desc = "transport: Error while dialing dial tcp 172.17.0.2:8262: connect: connection refused"`. It is the error returned when DM-master fails to established the gRPC connection at the bottom layer.

After analyzing the basic error information and the error message descriptions, you can determine that this error occurs when DM-master sends gRPC requests to DM-worker but it fails to establish the gRPC connection. This error occurs often because DM-worker is not working normally.

### Error stack information

> DM decides whether to output the error stack information according to the severity of the error. The error stack records the complete stack trace information when the error occurs. If you do not fully ensure the error cause based on the basic information and the error message descriptions, use the error stack information to further check the running path of the error code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DM decides whether to output the error stack information according to the severity of the error. The error stack records the complete stack trace information when the error occurs. If you cannot figure out the cause based on the basic information and the error message descriptions, use the error stack information to further check the running path of the error code.
```

> DM decides whether to output the error stack based on the severity of the error. The error stack records the complete stack call information when the error occurs. If you cannot fully diagnose the cause of the error based on the basic information and the error message description, use the error stack to further follow the running path of the error code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
DM decides whether to output the error stack based on the severity of the error. The error stack records the complete stack trace information when the error occurs. If you cannot fully diagnose the cause of the error based on the basic information and the error message description, use the error stack to further follow the running path of the error code.
```

## Published error code

You can find out a complete list of error codes from the [published error codes](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/blob/master/_utils/terror_gen/errors_release.txt) in the DM code warehouse.

## Common error descriptions and solutions

| Error code       | Error description                                                     | Solutions                                                     |
| :----------- | :------------------------------------------------------------ | :----------------------------------------------------------- |
| `code=10001` | Abnormal database operation                                              |  Further analyze the error message and error stack                                |

> | `code=10002` | The `bad connection` error at the bottom of the database. It usually indicates that the connection of DM to the downstream TiDB instance is abnormal (possibly caused by network failure, TiDB restart and so on) and the currently requested data is not sent to TiDB. |  DM provides automatic recovery for such error. If the recovery is not successful for a long time, check the network or TiDB status. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `code=10002` | The `bad connection` error from the underlying database. It usually indicates that the connection of DM to the downstream TiDB instance is abnormal (possibly caused by network failure, TiDB restart and so on) and the currently requested data is not sent to TiDB. |  DM provides automatic recovery for such error. If the recovery is not successful for a long time, check the network or TiDB status. |
```

> | `code=10003` | The `invalid connection` error at the bottom of the database. It usually indicates that the connection of DM to the downstream TiDB instance is abnormal (possibly caused by network failure, TiDB restart and so on) and the currently requested data is partly sent to TiDB.  | DM provides automatic recovery for such error. If the recovery is not successful for a long time, further check the error message and analyze the information based on the actual situation. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `code=10003` | The `invalid connection` error from the underlying database. It usually indicates that the connection of DM to the downstream TiDB instance is abnormal (possibly caused by network failure, TiDB restart and so on) and the currently requested data is partly sent to TiDB.  | DM provides automatic recovery for such error. If the recovery is not successful for a long time, further check the error message and analyze the information based on the actual situation. |
```

> | `code=10005` |  An error occurs when performing the query type SQL statements.                                         |                                                              |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `code=10005` |  An error occurs when performing the `QUERY` type SQL statements.                                         |                                                              |
```

| `code=10006` |  An error occurs when performing the `EXECUTE` type SQL statements, including DDL statements and DML statements of the `INSERT`, `UPDATE`or `DELETE` type. For more detailed error information, check the error message which usually includes the error code and error information returned for database operations.
|                                                              |
| `code=11006` |  Error occurs when the DM built-in parser parses the incompatible DDL statements.          |  Refer to [Data Migration - incompatible DDL statements](/dev/how-to/troubleshoot/data-migration.md#incompatible-ddl-statements) for solution. |

> | `code=20010` |   An error occurs when TiDB processes the task configuration and decrypts the database password.                   |  Check whether the downstream database password provided in the configuration task is [correctly encrypted using dmctl](/dev/how-to/deploy/data-migration-with-ansible.md#encrypt-the-upstream-mysql-user-password-using-dmctl). |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `code=20010` |   An error occurs when decrypts the database password that is provided in task configuration.                   |  Check whether the downstream database password provided in the configuration task is [correctly encrypted using dmctl](/dev/how-to/deploy/data-migration-with-ansible.md#encrypt-the-upstream-mysql-user-password-using-dmctl). |
```
